1. Real-time Analytics of Social Media Data to Enable Law Enforcement 
Business Problem and Example Use Case

Law enforcement agencies across the country and world strive to leverage timely information to act in time and proactively to address issues.  Given the rise in social media’s role in communication and collaboration among individuals, social media can provide key and timely insights that can help law enforcement agencies act quickly as well provide insights previously not possible.

For example, one large US city established a command and control center, where they can monitor for a given geography, social media activity around key words they specify.  For a  given event, for example, city security officials, police, fire and event management officials were able to monitor social media activity around specific words of interest to each of these groups.  Real-time analytics were used to capture and process these events and then visualize them for each group based on their area of interest.  The activity was monitored for a given geographic area based on geographic tag in the tweets where available.  This application is now being piloted in a large U.S. city.

Products Leveraged
The IBM products leveraged for this particular use case are:

InfoSphere Streams for real-time analysis of social media data
Cognos for reporting
DB2.
Assets Provided
Assets we will make available to hackers for the hackathon- sample app, data set, etc.

Sample Application
Data Set (de-sensitized): Instagram, Twitter feeds
Cognos framework model export and report designer export
Suggested Hacks
Possible use case extensions/ideas/challenges for hackers to consider 

Pre-built list of key words were being monitored in this use case.  New words are created all the time in social media.  How can we proactively identify new words of interest to suggest words that these groups should be monitoring based on trends, patterns, etc.   Automatic detection of emerging trend and then constructing self building key word list and then applying trending 
How can we correlate the information from the social media sources with other data sources to provide new insights.  Example weather patterns and potential issues based on that. 
How can one monitor multiple locations to determine issues/threats? 
Possible visualization extension: Using keywords decreasing or increasing in a given time interval (1 min or 5 min intervals) 
What are other ways in which real time analytics of big data can help law enforcement? 
How do you handle spam? 
